# BehavEphyRNAseq
This is where I store all the raw and processed data and scripts for a 5 year collaboration between the Fenton and Hofmann Labs. Then, little bits and pieces are broken off for the the four sub projects

The goal of this integrative research project is to understand how experience shapes the brain. In particular, we are looking at learned avoidance behavior using the Active Place Avoidance Task. 

The repo name comes from the longer "**Behav**ior **E**lectro**phy**siology **RNA** **seq**uencing", which are the three levels of analysis we incorporate to understand how experience alters brain and behavior. 

## Repo Contents
- [**data**]((./data/)): contains all the raw and processed data files. They are broken up into sub folders. 
- [**grantproposals**](./grantproposals/): we wrote a bunch of grants the last few years. here's a copy of two.
- [**markdownfiles**](./markdownfiles/): this contains all the .R and .Rmd scripts as well as the .md output files. They have prefixes to hint at the order of operation. The workflow is described in more detail below
- [**supplies_orders**](./supplies_orders/): the contains a copy of all the supplies I ordered over the years for molecular consumables and reagents.
- [**results**](./results/): this contains all the figures generated by the .Rmd scripts

## Workflow
All the data analyses for this project were conducted in R. Here is a brief overview of each of the .R or .Rmd files

**Behavior**

**RNAseq**
- 02a_tidysamples.R: This is a data wrangling script. I make some new columns to describe the samples and delete some obsolete columns. I also filter all samples that were never processed for RNAseq. 
	- The two input files are `./data/punches.csv` and `./data/animals.csv`
	- The output file is `./data/tidysamples.csv` 
- 02b_KallistoGather.Rmd: This script gathers all the raw data for every sample (contained in subdirectories in `./data/04_kallistoquant` and joins it into two dataframes called `count` and `tpm` which stands for transcripts per million. Then, I do some data manipulation to obtain gene-level measurements. Then, because some samples won't be carried forward, I do one more step to remove unsed samples. 
	- The input file is `./data/tidysamples.csv `
	- The are six output files.
- 02c_DESeq2.Rmd: This script does a very slow analysis of all of the samples looking to see if brain region differences hold up over all three sequencing runs. 
	- The two input files are `./data/kallistosamples.csv` and `./data/countbygene/csv`.

**Ephys**


**Miscellaneous**
- 99_DataWranglingForNsbProjects.Rmd: Some of the samples I collected were used by students in the NS&B course. This is the file I used to subset the data and create a sample information sheet for students


